# Causal Observational Analytics
The application of machine learning has gained much visibility in the field of causal analytics in the recent years. This project utilizes a couple of packages causalml, causallib and causalInference packages to understand the impact of discounts on sales revenue, and promotion on performance of employees. 

From theoretical perspectives, good HRM practices leads to employee-centered outcomes such as motivation, job satisfaction, good organizational citizenship and commitment which can boost organizational-centered outcomes such retention, Increase in output and lower law suits leading to sustainable competitive advantage for the organization. However, not all employees respond to an incentive equally, that is why it is necessary to understand the psychometric characteristics of the employees with the aim of designing optimal HRM systems that will promote employee performance thereby realizing sustained competitive advantage inherent in human assets for the organization.

In addition, discounts on sales are given to customers to motivate them to purchase more thereby increasing sales revenue.  However, in achieving this objective, there is the need to understand customers that will respond appropriately to the discounts and the optimal discount that promote sales revenue, otherwise, the strategy may be counter productive.

We utilized various algorithms, matching, IPW, AIPW, Standardization, X-learner with causallib, causalInference and causalml packages to analyze the datasets.  In the case of discounts, we found that using the doubly robust estimator shows that discounts reduced sales revenue compared with those that did not get discounts, while in the HRM model, promotion have a higher impact on performance compared to those that did not get promoted.
