# College-Performance-Analytics
This project seeks to understand the impact of ownership-control on the performance of colleges in the United States.  Ownership control refers to whether a university is owned and controlled either by public or private persons.  In addition, I looked at it from the perspective of whether the ownership is for-profit or not for-profit.  The explanatory variables include, "Average Sat Score", "Instructional Cost", "In-State Tuition", "Out of State Tuition", "Average Faculty Salaries", "Proportion of Full Time Faculty" "Proportion of students recieving Pell Grants".  The outcome variables are "Graduation Rates" and "Retention Rates".  Model 1 incorporated Public university variable, while model 2 incorporated for-profit colleges variable, while the dependent variable for the 2 models is Completion Rates.  We repeated same variables in models 3 and 4, but the dependent variable was Retention Rate.  The completion rate model was able to explain over 70% of the changes in graduation rate by the explanatory variables, while models 3 and 4 explained 67% which we considered to be very high.  When we subjected the model to various diagnostic tests, such as normality test, influential tests, heteroschedasity test, the model was able to scale through successfully.

Factors that have positive impact on graduation rates include "Sat Score", "Out of State Tuition", "Average Faculty Salary".  Factors that have negative impact on graduation rates include "InStateTuition", "Instructional Cost", "Pell Grant".  In this model, universities owned by the public has a lower graduation rates compared with those owned by the private, while universities owned by the public have higher retention rates compared with those owned by the private universities, although this was not statistically siginificant.  Profit-orientation has no significicant impact on the performance of the colleges in all the models.
